- [Narrator] Serverless is the next evolution of the cloud
that frees up developers from unnecessary plumbing
and allows them to focus on business problems,
enables fast delivery,
and at the same time,
reduces operation costs and complexity.
If we compare serverless with other cloud solutions,
they all have value and a good reason for using each.
The challenge for us is knowing when to use
which abstraction.
As we go down this hierarchy,
we have much more flexibility and there are fewer standards.
As we go up to hierarchy,
we get much less complexity and a lot more efficiency.
We are constrained more, but we get some benefit from that.
But what are some common traits of serverless service?
The first is vendor lock-in.
When starting out with AWS Lambda,
you will be encouraged to use AWS-specific libraries
as they are more performant and optimized for AWS Lambda.
They provide SDKs for communicating with other AWS services,
such as logging, tracing, S3 bucket.
But you don't have to use any vendor-specific libraries,
as there are workarounds to have you called less ties
to Amazon as a vendor.
When the Lambda function gets invoked for the first time,
it spins up a new virtual machine,
loads the code and executes everything
outside your function handler.
For example,
loading of libraries and defining global variables and more.
Bootstrapping the executing context,
which adds extra latency
before the handler gets invoked is called a cold start.
This can have negative performance effects,
especially in Java,
due to its well-known high memory footprint.
This doesn't happen every time.
AWS will freeze execution context for around 15 minutes.
But if we get 100 simultaneous requests,
then this can cause performance degradation
and have increased negative effect in pricing.
We will explore how to take a look with code improvements,
but also with the new AWS feature
called Provisional Concurrency,
a feature that was introduced to keep functions initialized.
Another tool that can be used is AWS Power Tuning
to test different configurations
to find balance between performance and pricing.
Unit testing is quite easy,
since you're dealing with only one function
where we can easily mock any dependencies,
but testing also consists of functional
and integration testing.
This is really tricky
since the entire application is relying
on so many components available in the cloud.
We were used to having dedicated local environments,
but now we need to run everything in the cloud.
This means we need to consider using different accounts,
maybe different versions over Lambda functions,
not to jeopardize our production behavior.
Finally, the most crucial reason
why most developers avoid dealing
with serverless architecture is
because you can't run an entire application
on serverless systems.
Most traditional web applications are pegged
as a one monolith,
containing dependency injection framework,
packed with API endpoints,
connections to databases,
and packed with static resources for the web,
such as JavaScript files and page templates.
We have to really completely rethink
how we go about the architecture,
just taking our existing applications
and turning them into functions,
as a serverless app is not really going to help us.
For this reason serverless, suits greenfield development.